# BIOMD0000000183: BIOMD0000000183

## Installation

Download this repository, and install with distutils

`python setup.py install`

Or, install using pip

`pip install git+https://github.com/biomodels/BIOMD0000000183.git`

To install a specific version (in this example, from the 2014-09-16 BioModels release)

`pip install git+https://github.com/biomodels/BIOMD0000000183.git@20140916`


# Model Notes


Stefan2008 - calmodulin allostery

An allosteric model for calmodulin activation, in which binding to calcium
facilitates the transition between a low-affinity [tense (T)] and a high-
affinity [relaxed (R)] state.

This model is described in the article:

[An allosteric model of calmodulin explains differential activation of PP2B
and CaMKII.](http://identifiers.org/pubmed/18669651)

Stefan MI, Edelstein SJ, Le Nov√®re N

Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. U.S.A. 2008 Aug; 105(31): 10768-10773

Abstract:

Calmodulin plays a vital role in mediating bidirectional synaptic plasticity
by activating either calcium/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II (CaMKII)
or protein phosphatase 2B (PP2B) at different calcium concentrations. We
propose an allosteric model for calmodulin activation, in which binding to
calcium facilitates the transition between a low-affinity [tense (T)] and a
high-affinity [relaxed (R)] state. The four calcium-binding sites are assumed
to be nonidentical. The model is consistent with previously reported
experimental data for calcium binding to calmodulin. It also accounts for
known properties of calmodulin that have been difficult to model so far,
including the activity of nonsaturated forms of calmodulin (we predict the
existence of open conformations in the absence of calcium), an increase in
calcium affinity once calmodulin is bound to a target, and the differential
activation of CaMKII and PP2B depending on calcium concentration.

This model is hosted on [BioModels Database](http://www.ebi.ac.uk/biomodels/)
and identified by:
[BIOMD0000000183](http://identifiers.org/biomodels.db/BIOMD0000000183).

To cite BioModels Database, please use: [BioModels Database: An enhanced,
curated and annotated resource for published quantitative kinetic
models](http://identifiers.org/pubmed/20587024).

To the extent possible under law, all copyright and related or neighbouring
rights to this encoded model have been dedicated to the public domain
worldwide. Please refer to [CC0 Public Domain
Dedication](http://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/) for more
information.


